# Authorization Services
If your app is going to remember a user's data then it will need a way to uniquely associate the data  with a particula credential. That usually means that you authenticate a user by asking for information, such as an email address and password. You then remember for some period of time that the user has authenticated by storing an authentication token on the user's device. Often that token is stored in a cookie that is passed back to your web service on each request. The service can now associate data that the user supplies with a unique indentifer that corresponds to their authorization token. 

Determining what a user is authorized to do in your application is also important. For example, you might have different roles in your app such as admins, editors, and customers. Once you have the ability to authenticate a user and store info about that user, you can also store the authorization for the user. A simple app might have a single field that represents the role of the user. The service code would then use that role to allow, limit, or prevent what a service endpoint does. A complex web app will usually have very powerful authorization representation that controls the user's access to every part of the app. For example, an editor role might have authorization only to work on content that they created or were invited to. 

this becomes very complex, very quickly. It is also a primary target for a hacker. If they can bypass authentication or escalate what they are authorized to do, then they can gain control of your app. Additionally, constantly forcing users to authenticate in a secure way causes users to not want to use an app. This crates opposing priorities: keep the system secure or make it easy to use. 

In an attempt to remove the complexity of authentication and authorization from your app, many service providers and package developers have created solutions that you can use. Assuming that you are using a trusted well-tested service this is an attractive option becuase it removes the cost of building testing, and managing that critical infrastructure yourself. 

Authorization services othen use standard protocols fro authenticating and authorizaing. These include standards such as OAuth, SAML, and OIDC. Additionally, they ususlally support concepts like single sign on and federated login. Single sing on allows a user to use the same credentials for multiple web applications. For example you can log in to github using your google credentials. Federated login allows a user to log in once, and then the authentication token is reused automaticaly log the user in to multple websites. For example, loggin in to gmail allows you to also use google docs and youtube without logging in again. 

For this course we will implement our own authentication using a simple email/password design. Knowing how to implement a simple authentication design will help you appreciate what authentication services provide. If you want to experiement with different authorization services you might consider aws cognito or google firebase. 