# Development
When working on a commercial web app, it is critical to seperate where you develop your app from where the production release of your app is made publicly available. often times there are more environments than this, such as staging, internal testing, and external testing environments. If your company is seeking third party secutity certicifation (such as SOC2 compliance) they will require that these environments are strictly separated from each other. A developer will not have access to the production environment in order to prevent a developer from nefariously manipulating an entire company asset.
- Instead, automated integration processes, called continuous integration (CI), chekcout the application code, lint it, build it, test it, stage it, test it more, and then finally, if everything checks out, deploy the application to the production environment, and notify the different departments in the company of the realease. 

For our work, you will use and manage both your development environment ( your personal computer) and your production environment (your AWS server). However, you should never consider your production environment as a place to develop, or experiement with, your application. You may shell into the production environment to configure your server or to debug a production problem, but the deployment of your app should happen using an automated CI process. For our CI process, we will use a very simple console shell script. 

## Automating your development
The advantage of using an automated deployment process is that it is reproducible. You don't accidentally delete a file, or miconfigure something with an stray keystroke. Also, having an automated script encourages you to iterate quickly because it is so much easier to deoploy your code. You can add a small feature, deploy it out to production, and get feedback within minutes from your users. 

Our deployment scripts change with each new technology that we have to deploy. Initially, they just copy up a directory of html files, but soon they include the ability to modify the configuration of your web server, run transpiler tools, and bundle your code into a deployable package. 