# HTTPS, TLS, and web certificates
- During the first decades of the web, it was common for websites to use HTTP. 
- Without a secure connection anyone that had access to the network traffic, at any point, from the user's computer to the server handling the request could easily capture all the data sent in either direction. 

## HTTPS and TLS
- All data in HTTPS is encrypted using the TLS protocol. 
- TLS works by negotiating a shared secret that is then used to encrypt data. 
- You can see the actual negotiation that happens by using the console browser based application curl, along with the -v parameter to see the verbose output of the HTTPS exchange. 

## Web certificates
- Web certificates are generated by a trusted 3rd party using public/private key encryption. 
- Until about 2014 it would cost you hundreds of dollars a year to get a web certificate, and you needed a certificate for every domain and subdomain that you owned. That would cost, even a small company, thousands of dollars a year becuase the certificates needed to be renewed in order to ensure that it still represented the owneer of the domain name and to limit the impact of stolen certificate. 
- All that changed when two Mozilla employees created a non-profit called Let's Encrypt with the goal of creating trusted web certificates for free. 
- Now using a service like Let's Encrypt, and the IETF standard ACME protocol that they pioneerd, anyone who owns a domain name, can dynamiccaly generate and renew a certificate for free. 
- Caddy uses Let's Encrypt to generate a web certificate every time an HTTPS request is made for the domain name that Caddy doesnt have a web certificate for. 

## Enabling HTTPS
- You should always support HTTPS for any web application that you build. 
- You can obtain, and renew, a web certificate by enabling the ACME protocol for your web server and communicating with Let's Encrypt to genertate the needed certificates. 
- Many languages such as Rust, Node.js, or Go support this functionality by simply including an additional library. 

### Caddy
- For our work we are using the web service Caddy to act as a gateway to our different services and to host our static web application files. 
- Caddy has ACME support built into it by default, and so all you need to do is configure Caddy with the domain name for your web server.  Here are the steps.

1. Open a console window
2. Use ssh console program to shell into your production environment
    ssh -i [key pair file] ubuntu@[yourdomainnamehere]

    for example
    ssh -i ~/keys/production.pem ubuntu@myfunkychickens.click

3. Edit the Caddy's configuration (Caddyfile) file found in the ubuntu user's home directory
