# HTTP
Hypertext transfer protocol (http) is how the web talks. When a web browser makes a request to a web server it does it by using the http protocol. 
When a web client (e.g. a web browser) and a web server talk they exchange http requessts and responses. The browser will make an http request and the server will generate an http response. You can see the http exchange by using the browsers debugger or by using a console tool like curl. For example, in your console you can use the curl to make the following request. 

### Request
The HTTP request for the above command would look like the following

GET /hypertext/WWW/Helping.html HTTP/1.1
Host: info.cern.ch
Accept: text/html

An HTTP request has this general syntax

<verb> <url path, parameters, anchor> <version>
[<header key: value>]*
[
    <body>
]


### Verbs
GET Get the request resource. This can represent a request to get a single resource or a resource representing a list of resources. 
POST Create a new resource. The body of the request contains the resource. The response should include a unique ID of the newly created resource
PUT Update a resource. Either the URL path, HTTP header, or body must contain the unique ID of the resource being updated. The body of the requrest should contain the updated resource. THe bodyu of the response may contain the resulting updated resource.
DELETE Delete a resource. Either the URL path or HTTP header must contain the unique ID of the resource to delete
OPTIONS Get metadata about a resource. Usually only http headers are returned the resource itself is not returend. 

### Status codes
- 1xx - informational
- 2xx - Success
- 3xx - Redirect to some other location, or that the previously cached resource is still valid
- 4xx - Client errors. THe request is invalid
- 5xx - server errors. The request cannot be satisfied due to an error on the server. 

### Headers 
HTTP headers specify metadata about a request or response. This includes things like how to handle security, caching, data formats, and cookies. Some common headers that you will use include the following 

### Body 
The format of the body of an HTTP request or response is defined by the content type header. 

### Cookies
HTTP itself is stateless. this means that one HTTP request does not know anything about previous or future requests. However, that does not mean that the server or client cannot track state across requests. One common method for traking state is teh cookie. Cookies are generated by a server and passed to the client as an http header.

HTTP/2 200
Set-Cookie: myAppCookie=tasty; SameSite=Strict; Secure; HttpOnly

the client then caches the cookie and returns it as an HTTP header back to the server on subsequent requests.

HTTP/2 200
Cookie: myAppCookie=tasty

This allows the server to remember things like the lanugeage preferene of the user or the users authentication credentials. A server can also use cookies to track and share everything that a user does. However there is nothing inherently evil abiout cookies. the problem comes from web applications that use them as a measns to violate a users privacy or inappropriately monetize their data. 

